Most people who speak only one language think that other languages ​​are similar to their language.
Just use different vocabulary, different word order or different writing styles.
Actually, there are many interesting qualities in other languages.
Some are worth learning from English. Next, introduce four of them.
The first type: tense independence.
If you want to describe an action in English, you must say when it happened, or when it will happen.
You must explain. The verb is thus deformed according to the tense. I danced - past tense. I am dancing,
I dance - now. I am going to dance - in the future. If you don’t mention the tense in English
There is no way to describe the concept of a person dancing. Relatively, if used
Chinese? Verbs do not need to be deformed
In most cases, the meaning of the text is clear. I don't mean that Chinese does not have a tense system.
Just the tense is not essential. Don’t need to
Appears in every sentence.
Side note: The tense is not just simple, past, present, or future, in some other languages.
There are also some lovely subtle tenses. I will mention it further in the video that follows.
In short, if you write a poem with a vague sense of time, then Chinese
It is very suitable.
Second: Inclusive.
The word "we" is ambiguous. Imagine saying to someone, "We are in the middle.
lottery ticket! ”
This sentence has two meanings. First, "we" refers to the person who speaks and the person who hears this sentence.
We have won the lottery! Excellent! Second, "we" refers to the person who speaks and
The friends of the speaker... but not the one who heard this. We have won the lottery! But you are not in the middle.
In an inclusive language, depending on whether the package does not contain the listener,
Use different "we" to refer to. This characteristic occurs in South Asia, Australasia (Australia, New Zealand and the Pacific Islands)
And in many languages ​​of the world, except Europe. I really hope that English is inclusive.
Because it’s obvious, this feature will be for us – hey, we all
Both are very useful.
The third type: absolute directionality.
This trait is not so practical, but it is cool. In some languages, especially some Australian indigenous languages
Such as Guugu Yimithirr - there are a lot of research on it -
Words that do not indicate "before", "after", "left", "right", always use orientation
That is to say, "East", "South", "West" and "North". For example, in this studio, the north is there,
Then I have a "North" foot and a "South" foot now. If I turn now, I have a "West" foot.
And an "East" foot. It should be right. I am not very good at such simple things.
But if your native language is this absolutely directional language, your brain can handle it.
You will always know which direction you are facing - if you don't know, you will have trouble talking.
As a language feature, I personally feel that the relative direction will be more practical.
Especially for those of us who often go to the London Underground - but if you always know which side is north
The words are pretty cool.
The fourth type: evidence.
As with the tense as an essential part of the English sentence, in many other languages ​​around the world,
The argument is also an indispensable part of the sentence. If you are reporting something happening,
You must include this element that you see with your own eyes. Of course, you can do this in English too:
"I saw it" "I heard it," but this is not an essential sentence element.
Some languages ​​contain more than five types of statements, including: Do you see it yourself, whether you are personally involved?
Experience but didn't see anything, whether it was inferred from other things,
Whether to relay what others have said... All these concepts are complicated to explain in English,
But in a language that is eloquent, you only need to change one word.
The ending of the word.
All these wonderful qualities are one of the reasons why we should pay attention to the preservation of a few languages ​​around the world.
If English dominates the world, destroy all other languages,
What we will lose is not only the rich language, but also the ability of human thinking that can be seen from it.
The question I am asking you now is: Can you come up with a new language trait?
That kind of language should have, but it does not have the qualities.
Next issue: Why things are not always black and white, or blue-green.
Translation: Xiaoyun Wu